---
layout: post
title: Incompleteness theorems
author: Davit Ohanyan
date: 2020-07-27 00:16:53 +0200
tags: [mathematician, Gödel, incompleteness]
---

Everyone has a favorite literature author, music composer, philosopher or scientist. In this post I am going to tell about my favorite mathematician: Kurt Gödel and about his famous incompleteness theorems. The idea of these theorems helps me in my personal life and professional carrier to take a break and look into the problems from different angle. It's quite similar to practicing mindfulness, but mindfulness is separate topic and I am not going to go deep into in this post.
Before telling the theorems let us revise the concepts like "formal system", "consistency", and "completeness".
Formal system is a system of axioms equipped with rules of inference, which allow one to generate new theorems. A formal system is complete if for every statement of the language of the system, either the statement or its negation can be proved in the system. A formal system is consistent if there is no statement such that the statement itself and its negation are both proofable in the system.

So what Gödel proved is that every system is either incomplete or inconsistent.  
Based on your beliefs of the system rules you can see/feel something is true, but actually it's not derived by that rules. Or, it's also true, that can be cases/ideas which will be impossible to proof with given tools of the system.
So in order to prove the statement you should come up with new system(you can easily make the statement as axiom).


Kurt Gödel was ill and mentally unstable. He had a paranoid fear that someone would poison him. He trusted only his wife, and would eat the food she prepared for him or alternatively, she would taste any provided food before he ate it. When she became ill in 1977 and had to be hospitalized for six months, Gödel refused to eat, and eventually died of malnutrition in 1978 at the age of 71 [2]. When he died, he weighed only 30kg. 